# Collectd Couchbase Plugin

## Introduction

collectd-couchbase is a [collectd](http://www.collectd.org/) plugin that
collects statistics from Couchbase.


## Requirements

* Collectd 4.9 or later (for the Python plugin)
* Python 2.7 or later
* Couchbase 4.1 or later

## Configuration

The following mandatory configuration options describe how the plugin will
connect to the Couchbase Server:

* CollectTarget - Required option. Define the plugin running instance, has two options: 'NODE' - 
get nodes related metrics or 'BUCKET' - get bucket related metrics. Target 'BUCKET' requires to have username and
password to connect to selected bucket
* Host - Required option. Hostname or IP address of the Couchbase server, default is 'localhost'
* Port - Required option. The port of the Couchbase server, default is '8091'

The following optional settings may be specified to control the behavior of the plugin:

* Username - the username for authentication to selected bucket, default is None. 
If your bucket has not set up username and password just ignore this parameter otherwise define them
* Password - the password for authentication to selected bucket, default is None
If your bucket has not set up username and password just ignore this parameter otherwise define them
* Interval - interval between sync metrics calls, default is 10 seconds
* CollectMode - define the mode of plugin running, has two options: 'default' - 
get basics metrics or 'detailed' - get all available metrics. See details in `metric_info.py`
* CollectBucket - bucket name for retrieving metrics. 
* FieldLength - Set the number of characters used to encode dimension data. This option should only ever be set if 
you specifically compiled collectd with a non-default value for DATA_MAX_NAME_LEN in plugin.h
* ClusterName - Set your couchbase cluster name. Default value is 'default'

The following is an example Collectd configuration for this plugin:

```
    LoadPlugin python
    <Plugin python>
      ModulePath "/opt/collectd-couchbase"

      Import couchbase
      <Module couchbase>
        CollectTarget "NODE"
        Host "localhost"
        Port "8091"
        CollectMode "default"
        ClusterName "MyCluster1"
        Interval 10
      </Module>
      <Module couchbase>
        CollectTarget "BUCKET"
        Host "localhost"
        Port "8091"
        Username "USERNAME"
        Password "PASSWORD"
        Interval 10
        CollectMode "default"
        CollectBucket "default"
        ClusterName "MyCluster1"
      </Module>
    </Plugin>
```

## Known Issues

### Truncating of long dimensions in the plugin_instance field

Collectd has a 64-byte limit on the plugin_instance field, which this plugin
uses to post dimensions to SignalFx. The dimensions include the node name,
bucket name, and cluster name.
The combination of these names as generated by Couchbase may exceed 64
characters. As a result, the dimensions posted to SignalFx (usually the
cluster name) may be truncated.

This has no effect on the metrics and values to SignalFx, only some of the
Couchbase-specific dimensions associated with those metrics.